[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So in this section, we're
going to talk about some
of the physical stresses that
activate the fat programs.
So we're going to go-- in
this section we'll deal
with the physical stresses.
The next section, we'll deal
with the mental and emotional
sections, stresses, and
then after lunch, we'll
kind of tie it all together.
And also at the end
of this, I'm going
to make you a little snack.
Normally the way we do
it is we make the snack
while I'm talking
and then we feed you
while you're sitting
there, but we're not
going to be able to do it,
because the crowd is just
too big.
So what I'm going
to do is I'm going
to make a snack
for myself, and you
can sit there and watch me eat
it and see how much I enjoy it.
And then at the end of
the section, be it'll
be all made for you, waiting
for you when you go out
for the next break, OK?
So I'm kind of looking forward
to that, making it for myself.
But we're going to talk about
some of the physical stress.
The first thing I
want to talk about
is how to regulate
your blood sugar.
Because when the
fat programs are on,
you lose the ability to regulate
your blood sugar properly.
And there's a reason for
that, and I'll explain that,
but you need to understand
that, because your body's not
functioning the way
it normally should.
And it causes you
to become tired,
and exhausted, and
crave junk food.
And unless you learn how
to manage your blood sugar,
you're going to
be fighting blind,
and it's going to be like you're
driving with the emergency
brake on.
You don't know why you're
hungry, why you're tired.
Do you ever notice, maybe like
an hour or two after a meal,
you're hungry for something
sweet and you're tired?
Yes?
Definitely.
And around 4 o'clock, 3 or
4 o'clock, you're exhausted.
Sometimes around 11
o'clock, 11 or 12 o'clock,
you've really got to have
something sweet before lunch.
And at the end of the day
before you go to sleep.
How many people have that?
Yeah?
I used to have that.
I used to like-- at
night, I was just so
famished, finally need some sort
of brownies, pizza, junk food.
Something at night.
I just couldn't go to sleep.
So I used to have that too
and, that's all intentional.
It's an intentional
act on your body
to actually cause you to gain
weight and hold onto weight
when your fat programs are on.
So you need to understand how to
keep your blood sugar stable so
that you have more energy and
you don't crave junk food.
You can make good food choices.
And so this first
section is really
about getting more energy.
Energy to deal with some of
the other issues in your life
that we're going to talk about
in the next section, which
are some of the mental
and emotional issues,
issues regarding either--
whether it's relationships,
or career, or
finding your passion,
or people that are being
mentally or physically abusive
in your life.
You need energy
to deal with that.
Energy to be more
physically active.
So that's we we're going
to talk about right now,
is how to regulate
your blood sugar.
And it's really, really crucial.
And I've explained this--
this is stuff that's out there,
what I'm telling you now,
but the way I've
explained it, I've
had doctors and nurses at
seminars come up to me and say,
no one's ever really
explained it that way.
And so now I get it.
So this is my own
take on blood sugar
and how to keep your
blood sugar stable.
So the way it works is your
body needs to keep your blood--
your body needs to keep a little
bit of sugar in your blood
at all times.
Not too much and not too little.
If you have too much
sugar in your blood,
that can cause nerve
damage to your body.
If you have too little
sugar in your blood,
your brain can't function.
You become tired,
irritable, and it causes you
to crave junk food, because
junk food is the quickest
way to get sugar back in.
So when your blood
sugar falls too low,
you're going to want to--
you're going to
make a food choice.
You're going to have a
craving for the quickest
source of sugar, and that's
always the worst choice.
So throughout the
day, your body wants
to keep your sugar in your
blood in a narrow range.
Not too high, not too low.
And it has ways of
keeping your blood sugar
not too high and not too low.
And this is how it does it.
When you eat a meal,
your blood sugar
goes up, higher
than it should be.
So if you eat a meal, your
blood sugar goes up to here.
Now your body has to
lower your blood sugar.
The way your body
lowers blood sugar is it
actually stores the sugar
in the cells of your body.
In your muscle cells,
and your liver cells,
and your fat cells,
it stores the sugar.
If you think about it, you can
look at the cells of your body
as like a bank
account for sugar.
So what happens is your blood
sugar goes up after a meal,
and your body secretes a
hormone called insulin.
It's a big one.
You need to know about insulin.
Most of you probably do.
So insulin is a fat
storage hormone.
The purpose of insulin
is to store sugar and fat
in your body, and the
way it works is this.
If this was a cell in your body,
insulin goes up to the cell
and acts like a key that
opens up a little doorway.
And so the cell is open now
so that sugar can go in,
and other nutrients.
That's insulin's job.
It's like this little
key that travels
through your bloodstream
unlocking cells.
And when that
happens, all the sugar
that's in your
bloodstream then gets
stored in the cells of
your body so your blood
sugar goes back down.
And when your blood
sugar goes back down,
your insulin levels
go back down.
Then, throughout
the day, as you're
using that sugar--
your brain needs it,
your muscles need it-- as
you're using that sugar,
your blood sugar
goes down again.
Now when your blood
sugar goes too low,
the exact opposite happens.
Your body secretes
a different hormone
that goes up to your
cells and unlocks it
and gets the sugar back out.
And as it gets the
sugar back out,
your blood sugar goes up again.
So in this way, your body's
able to regulate its blood
sugar like this.
When it gets too high, the
insulin comes in and lowers it.
When it gets too low,
other hormones raise it.
Like that.
And in that way, you
can have lots of energy
throughout the day.
And if you notice, people when
their bodies are functioning
properly, more
naturally thin people,
they have energy
throughout the day.
And maybe they need-- maybe they
eat a lot, maybe they don't.
Sometimes they miss meals.
You know, all those
naturally thin people,
they eat whatever they want,
but one thing we never focus on
is how many meals they miss.
You know?
When your body wants
to be fat, it's
very rare that you miss a meal.
You're counting your
meals and you're
waiting for the next meal.
Right?
You know how many meals
you're going to have.
You know exactly when
you're going to have them
and what you're going
to have, and it's
because you really want them.
But when your body's
functioning properly,
you have a lot of energy,
and maybe you miss a meal.
Maybe you go-- and then all of
a sudden, you miss two meals
and then you're famished
and you eat a lot.
It doesn't matter,
because your body can keep
the energy flowing properly.
But when the fat programs
get activated, what happens
is your body stops listening
to the hormone insulin.
You get what's called
insulin resistance.
Your body stops listening.
So what happens is if
this was a cell again,
and insulin goes up
and says open up,
the cell doesn't listen.
So the cell doesn't open
up, and so your blood sugar
doesn't go down.
So you eat a meal, your
blood sugar goes up,
your insulin levels go up,
but your blood sugar still
doesn't go up, because
your cells aren't
listening to the insulin.
And so your body has to produce
more and more and more and more
insulin to get your
blood sugar to go down.
So then your blood sugar
eventually goes down,
but the thing is you've
produced so much more insulin
than you need.
Then your insulin
levels stay up here.
They stay elevated.
They don't go down all the way.
Now this is what--
the key about insulin
is that when your insulin
levels are elevated,
it stops the other
hormones that burn fat,
that retrieve the sugar back.
It stops them from coming
out, because your body
won't let you be in fat
storage mode and fat burning
mode at the same time.
So if insulin is
in your system, it
will stop the other hormones
from coming into your body.
You will lose the ability
to regain the sugar out
of your cells.
So it's a little bit
like a bank account
that you're putting
money in, putting
money in, that's frozen.
You can't get the
money back out.
And that's what all
this excess energy is.
It's a frozen bank account.
We have all the energy we need
to survive as long as we want.
We just can't access it,
because you've lost the ability.
Because insulin as a hormone
is stopping the other hormones
from being activated.
So this is what happens.
So you eat a meal, your blood
sugar goes up the way it does,
and then insulin goes way up,
way higher than it should be.
Eventually, your blood
sugar goes back down,
but your insulin levels
are still activated.
So right around
here, your body would
secrete those other hormones
to get your insulin levels--
to get your blood
sugar to go back up,
but it doesn't, because
insulin is stopping it.
So your blood sugar goes
down, down, down, down, down,
and you get this
blood sugar plummet.
And when that happens, that's
11 o'clock, that's 4 o'clock.
That's two hours after a meal.
That's right before
you go to sleep.
When that happens,
you are exhausted
and your body is craving
sugar, pizza, chips, junk food,
something like
you can't imagine.
And it's just mechanical.
It's not because you're weak.
Not because you're lazy.
It's mechanics.
You need sugar.
You can't access your sugar.
And then you eat some
sort of quick fix,
and you get this
blood sugar spike.
And the blood sugar spike causes
your insulin levels to spike.
And that insulin spike
causes your blood sugar
to plummet again, and
you're right back down here
two hours later.
And guess what?
You're exhausted.
You're craving junk food.
You spike again.
So what happens is you get
that first plummet around here.
You get a spike, plummet,
spike, plummet, spike, plummet.
And all day long, you're
eating junk food every time
you get to this point.
Not because you need energy,
not because you need nutrition.
Simply because you can't
access the energy that you're
walking around with.
And you're just eating all
day because your body's not
functioning properly.
What you need to do is
you need to get your body
to listen to insulin
again, and you
need to eat foods that keep
your blood sugar stable.
So if you eat foods that
keep your blood sugar stable,
what happens is your blood
sugar stays like this.
If you eat foods that cause
your blood sugar spike,
it goes like this.
So you want to eat foods that
keep your blood sugar stable,
and you want to get
the cells of your body
to listen to insulin again.
You want your body to become
more sensitive to insulin.
Now, the foods that I recommend
eating will do two things.
One, they'll cause
your body become
more sensitive to
insulin, and they'll
cause your body to release
sugar in a very, very slow way.
And those two things,
combined over time,
will help undo
the whole process.
And those foods that I
recommend eating are--
and again, I recommend
adding to your diet, OK,
not turning into a diet,
but adding these things--
are a really good
source of protein.
You need some-- you need to
have a really good source
of omega-3 fatty acids, and
you need a really good source
of live food.
These three things combined will
do the job, because protein--
hold on.
Let me do the next screen.
I'll write those again.
So protein.
Protein, there we
go, protein keeps--
protein is not a sugar.
It's not a source
of energy, but it
can become a source of energy.
We need protein for our
muscles, for our enzymes,
for a lot of different
processes in your body.
But if you eat more protein
than your body needs,
it will convert it into sugar,
or at least into energy,
and it will do it in
a very slow process.
It takes a couple of hours.
So when you eat protein, your
blood sugar goes like this.
So you'd have protein
every meal to keep
your blood sugar stable.
Omega-3 fatty acids.
Omega-3 fatty acids are
an essential fatty acid.
Essential means you
have to have it.
Your body can't produce
it, and you need it.
And we go sometimes 20, 30 years
without having a proper source
of omega-3 fatty acids.
And this causes a
lot of problems,
because all of the
cells of our body
are covered in a layer of fat.
And if it's not the
right fat, then our cells
are not able to communicate with
the chemical messengers known
as hormones that travel
through our body.
What happens is the types
of fats like fried foods,
saturated fats, it's a hard fat.
So our cell has like a
hard fat coating to it.
So when the hormones come,
they don't listen properly.
Doesn't interact properly
with the hormones.
And this causes a
lot of problems.
Not just obesity.
It causes bipolar disease,
heart disease, inflammation,
arthritis.
So many different
chronic problems
that we have right now are
caused simply because our cells
are not covered
with the right fat.
So if you take for
example bipolar disease,
all of our brain
cells are 65% fat.
And when it's the wrong fat,
the neurotransmitters that
communicate with
the brain cells,
the brain cells don't
listen properly.
So you get this
sort of imbalance
that can cause bipolar disease.
Then you take medication
for bipolar disease,
and that causes obesity.
And it's simply because
you have the wrong fat.
It's like putting the wrong
oil in a car, or the wrong fuel
in a car, day after
day for 20 years.
It's just going to start
breaking down more and more
and more and more over time.
Now omega-3s are a
very permeable fat
that allow for
proper communication
with the hormones, insulin,
and all the neurotransmitters
in your brain, and lots
of different hormones.
And so your body starts
functioning properly.
But you need to
have omega-3 fatty
acids in your diet every
single day for six months.
It takes about six months for
your cells to be regenerated.
Every day, hundreds
of millions of them
die and hundreds of
millions of them are reborn,
but it takes about six
months to really coat
all of your body with omega-3s.
So it's not like a--
when I say to take
omega-3s, it's
not like a lose weight
drug that you're
expecting that all a
sudden you're going
to lose 10 kilos in two weeks.
It's forever to get the right
type of flow in your body
so that everything's
functioning properly.
So omega-3s will
cause your body--
will cause your cells to regain
the sensitivity to insulin.
And that means that when
your insulin levels go up,
the blood sugar goes down
the way it's supposed to be.
But your insulin
levels go all the way
down so that when your
blood sugar lowers again,
the other hormones can come
and bring it back up naturally,
because insulin is
not blocking that.
Insulin, by the way, is also
the fat storage hormone.
And as long as
your insulin levels
are elevated, which
is the case now,
you're in a perpetual
state of fat storage.
And that's why people look
at calories in, calories out,
and nobody even
asks the question,
do I even have the ability
to lose weight, to burn fat?
And when your insulin
levels are elevated,
no, you do not have the
ability to burn fat.
You do not have the
Mechanically.
Not because you're weak and
lazy, but because insulin
will not allow your
body to secrete
the hormones that burn fat.
It stops it.
You cannot be in fat-burning
and fat-losing mode at the same
time.
So if you're in
fat-making mode, you
can't be in fat-making mode and
fat-losing mode-- fat-burning
mode at the same time.
You're in fat-making
mode, which means
your insulin levels are up
and it won't let you burn fat.
So we're in a chronic
state of elevated insulin.
It's called hyperinsulinemia,
hyper meaning high, insulin.
We're in a chronic state
of elevated insulin levels.
So omega-3s will get
your body to become
more sensitive to insulin
so the insulin levels can
lower properly and you can
regain the ability burn fat.
So not only do you
have more energy
and are you not craving
junk food anymore,
but you have regained
the ability to burn fat.
It's like your
ATM card now works
and you can take the money out.
And then your cells become
more of a breathing thing.
You eat too much,
you store it as fat.
You go a couple days later,
over the next couple of days,
you use it.
You burn the fat again.
It becomes more of
a breathing thing,
not a frozen bank
account that you're
putting energy in all the time
and just having it stay frozen.
So omega-3s, you have
to have them every day.
Live food.
What I mean by
live food mainly is
food that existed before
we started inventing food
in an uncooked way.
Fruits, salads,
vegetables, nuts, seeds.
Especially green leafy
things have chlorophyll.
Chlorophyll captures sunlight
and converts that sunlight
into fats, carbohydrates,
and proteins.
And that's the whole reason
there's life on Earth.
It's captured sunlight.
It's captured energy.
And then what happens is the
cow eats the chlorophyll,
gets the proteins and
the fats and everything,
then we kill the cow.
We freeze it.
We dehydrate it.
We microwave it.
We process it.
We put it with a million
different invented foods.
And there's no more
life force in it.
There's no more
captured sunlight.
There's nothing live in there.
We need that live food.
And people are just starting
to measure it right now.
We don't even know that life
force exists in a tangible way
that we can measure the same way
that we didn't know that radio
waves existed 100 years ago.
But life force exists.
We all know that.
We know there's a difference
between a live person
and a dead person, right?
We know that.
Don't we?
Who doesn't?
Everyone knows
there's a difference
between a live person
and a dead person.
That's life force energy.
It's the same difference between
a live food and a dead food.
When you eat a live
food, you're eating
life force that makes you live.
When you eat dead, food
you're eating dead food.
It makes you dead.
We didn't used to eat dead food.
Nothing we ever ate thousands
of years ago is dead.
Not one thing, not even meat.
It was alive, and it
had life force in it.
And we're just
beginning to discover
how to measure that life
force through things like--
they call it biophotons.
There's a certain degree
of biophotons in live food
that goes into your
cells, and interacts
with your DNA and
repairs the DNA,
and strengthens
your immune system,
and all of these things.
So you need these three
things, protein, omega-3s,
and life food, and you
need them in every meal.
So every meal, you
want to ask yourself
where's the protein,
where's the omega-3s,
and where's the live food?
This is something that-- this
is like a little breakfast
that I recommend.
Which I'm going to
make it for you.
I haven't done this before.
Usually I have people
helping me make it.
But this is this an
example of a meal
that's got protein,
omega-3s and live food, OK?
But don't eat this for
the rest of your life
every morning for breakfast.
Don't turn this into
the Gabriel Method Diet
where this is the food
that you have to eat.
It's just an example, OK?
So I'm taking some yogurt,
which you don't necessarily
need the yogurt,
but the yogurt's
got some good probiotics
that help with digestion.
I'm going to take a good
source of protein powder.
This is a whey protein powder.
It's unsweetened, unflavored
whey protein powder.
That's a good source of protein.
Where's Helen?
Are you here, Helen?
Normally Helen does this for me.
I can't survive
anymore without Helen.
All right, so that's a
good sort of portion.
Then I'm going to
put some omega-3s
in the form of chia seeds, which
are the hottest rage right now.
These look a little bit like
sesame-- or poppy seeds.
I'm thinking poppy seeds.
I'll just put those in.
Ground flax seeds are a really
good source of omega-3s.
Flax seeds or linseeds.
You can buy these at the
health food store for like $10
a kilo organic.
And by the way, I
recommend you buy organic.
We'll talk about that later.
But you grind them-- you buy
them whole, you grind them up.
It will last you a month.
It's the best source of
omega-3s you can get.
A really good one anyway.
And put that in.
Then I'm just going to put
some fresh fruit in there.
And so that's got
those basic components.
And just mix that up.
And then I'm going to eat this
while you guys sit and watch
me, while your blood sugar is
going down and down and down.
And you don't need a
sweetener, but we usually
put a little bit of sweetener.
As a sweetener, I
recommend xylitol.
Xylitol is a natural sweetener,
not an artificial sweetener.
And you don't want
artificial sweeteners,
because they actually
activate the fat programs.
And this is another example
of calories in calories out
and how flawed that is.
They've done studies with
people that drink diet soda,
that if you drink diet soda,
you're like five times more
likely to gain weight
over the next five years.
And the reason is that
some of the components
of artificial sweeteners
like aspartame
have in them a
neurotransmitter that
turns on your fat programs.
So it's really about
chemistry, not calories.
You're not going to get any
calories from a sweetener,
but you're going to
activate your fat programs,
so you going to get
it somewhere else.
So artificial sweeteners will
activate your fat programs.
So will some
artificial ingredients.
For example MSG, also known
as flavor enhancer 621
and a lot of-- hydrolyzed
vegetable protein.
A lot of other terms.
MSG activates your fat programs,
and everybody knows this.
This is a thing
that drives me nuts.
Do you know that if you're
a biochemical researcher,
and you want to study
obesity, and you
want to first do some tests
on mice, mice aren't fat.
You've got to make a mouse fat.
You know how you
make a mouse fat?
Feed him MSG.
There's even a term for it.
MSG obesity-induced mice.
Everybody knows this.
They're not saying
does MSG make you fat?
They're saying, oh,
you want a fat mouse?
Hold on.
We'll give him some MSG.
And MSG is in all of our food.
It's in 80%--
anything that you buy
that's got flavor
enhancer of any kind
is going to have
some sort of MSG.
It causes you to
become addicted.
It has the glutamic acid in
MSG, monosodium glutamate.
The glutamic acid excites
a part of your brain
that activates
your fat programs,
and it's in all our food.
So it's not about calories
in and calories out.
It's about understanding
how your body works.
Xylitol on the other hand
is a natural sweetener
that doesn't elevate your blood
sugar like table sugar does.
It keeps your blood
sugar very stable.
It actually helps your
body absorb calcium,
so it's a legitimate
treatment for osteoporosis.
And it also helps
fight dental decay.
And because it helps
your body absorb calcium,
it reduces inflammation,
which means
it reduces the hormones that
cause inflammation which
are called
proinflammatory cytokines,
and those hormones
activate your fat programs.
So believe it or
not, xylitol can
help in many different ways.
And it tastes really good.
You can cook with it,
you can clean with it.
Gets stains off of everything.
And just mix it up.
And that's an example, but
there's lots of different ways
that you can get
omega-3s and live food.
For example for breakfast,
you can have eggs and salmon
and wrapped up in
nori with some salad.
Sprinkle some ground
flax seeds on it.
Kind of sprinkle ground
flax on pretty much anything
you have, I recommend.
Another good way to get
omega-3s is through fish oils.
The best fish oil is krill oil.
And I recommend
that you do both.
I recommend you have fish
oils, five to 10 grams a day,
and I recommend that
you put ground linseeds
on most of your food.
And eat cold water fish.
And eat a lot of
green leafy vegetables
that also have omega-3s
and live food in them.
So again, the
focus is on adding,
but you've got to get
your omega-3s every day.
OK, we're going to
start taking questions.
Are we starting-- can
we take questions now?
Yeah, we can start taking
questions now as I do this.
But we're going to--
but for questions, we
need you to stand up and
we'll have microphones, so
hold on one second.
>> Please stand up
so we can see you.
We'll start with the
lady at the front.
>> Before we do that, I just
need to make sure that this is
going to work for you guys.
Haven't eaten breakfast yet.
This is just to
further emphasize
what it feels like to
have low blood sugar,
because you can sit
there and watch me.
Needs to be a
little bit sweeter.
I'm going to have--
OK.
Can I get a volunteer
to taste this?
OK.
>> You don't want me to
jump up on the stage.
>> You can if you want.
You can jump up.
You can crawl up.
However you want.
Go ahead.
The pressure's on.
>> I could eat a lot of that.
>> She could eat a lot of that.
Give her a hand,
ladies and gentlemen.
You can take that back.
No, you have to keep that here.
No, I'm just kidding.
Can I take some
questions, please?
>> My question is do the
flax seeds have to be ground,
or can you just sprinkle
them on and eat as-is?
>> The question is do the
flax seeds need to be ground?
The answer is yes.
The flax seeds need to be
ground, because your body won't
absorb them otherwise.
It doesn't absorb.
It just passes
right through you.
>> Hi.
My question's about
flax seeds as well.
>> OK.
Hi.
>> I've got a nut allergy, and
I've been in the health food
shop previously, and
they say it's very nutty.
It's a very nutty seed.
Yeah.
>> So I wondered if there's
any substitutes for, like you
always talk about
seeds and nuts.
>> So is it all seeds
that you're allergic to?
Because nuts are a little
bit different than seeds.
>> Yeah, I do find
seeds make me allergic.
>> Yeah, well, then I
would stick with fish oils.
And again, the best type
of fish oil is krill oil.
And as I mentioned, I
think you should take,
especially you, I think you
should take 10 grams a day.
Now people, when you
buy fish oil capsules,
they say to take one to three
a day, something like that.
And I tell people
to take five or 10.
And your doctor may tell
you to take something
less than what I say.
Don't go against your doctor.
Always go with what
your doctor tells you.
But the reason I say to take
10 grams of fish oil a day
is all it is is it's oil.
It's not a drug.
It's not a medication.
Even though it's in
pill form, it's an oil.
And it's 10 grams of an oil.
When you go to the store
and you get fish and chips,
you're getting about
30 grams of fat.
OK?
But that fat causes all kinds
of problems in your system.
Causes the cells of your
body to become hard,
stop listening to insulin,
causes inflammation.
All these things activate
your fat programs.
And it's 30, 40 grams and you
don't think twice about it.
You know, your
doctor doesn't say
just have two grams of
fish and chips, right?
But all of a sudden
there's fish oil
in its most pure
form, which all it is
is fish in its most pure
form that can help you.
And all of sudden we've
got to put a limit on that.
I don't understand that.
So when you take 10 grams of
fish oil, which I really think
you should take, it's just oil.
That's all it is.
So especially for you,
I would take 10 grams.
Krill oil is the best,
but it's very expensive.
And so if you don't
have krill oil,
there's oil derived from
exclusively small fish.
They have less heavy
metals, because larger fish
have more metals in them,
so it has less toxins.
Yeah.
Hi.
>> Hi, Jon.
I just wanted to
ask, do you need
to put the sweetener
in the yogurt?
>> No.
You don't need sweetener at all.
And you don't need
yogurt at all either.
What you need are the omega-3s.
You need the omega-3s, the
protein, and live food.
You can make it
any way you want.
OK?
You could just take the
protein, and the chia seeds,
and some fruit,
and mix it together
with water, which
I do sometimes.
And by the way, Helen
did this for us.
I don't know where
Helen is, but Helen
is sort of the guardian
angel of the Gabriel Method.
She created these
sort of starter packs,
because every time
I do these seminars,
people are like,
where do you get this?
Where do you get that?
You can get most of this stuff
from your health food store,
but this is a
starter pack that she
created that has pretty much
everything you need for a week.
It's got some whey
protein powder,
and I recommend that you have--
if you're going to
use protein powder,
and especially if
you're a vegetarian,
you really, really
need protein powder.
This is just unsweetened,
unflavored whey protein powder.
You can do so many
things with it.
You can make it sweet.
You can make it savory.
It could be in salad dressings.
It could be in French toast.
You can bake with it.
But it's a good
way to get protein
in pretty much everything.
It has no taste and no
flavor, so it'll just
take on whatever taste
or flavor that you have.
She gives you like a
week's worth of xylitol.
Some flax seeds, which
you have to ground up,
and some chia seeds.
So if you guys are interested,
because I always get
that question, so that's there.
And there it goes.
So yes.
Who's next?
Yeah.
>> You may have answered
my question previously,
but I have a problem
with fish oil.
After several days,
I develop reflux.
Yeah.
>> Due to that, I have to stop.
I do include fish in my diet
at least three to four times
a week.
The other problem is krill oil.
I live in a country area,
and I'm having difficulty
locating where to purchase it.
>> Krill oil you can get online.
And it might have to
come from overseas,
but it'll come in a capsule.
So you can get krill oil online.
That's where I
would look for it.
And if you can't
have fish oils, then
make sure you have lots
of cold water fish.
Emphasis is cold water.
Try not to deep fry it.
Just cook it as
minimally as possible.
And make sure you get lots
of ground linseeds, flax
seeds, some other.
If you're going to have nuts,
some nuts have omega-3s.
Walnuts are a good
source of omega-3s.
But get the nuts
whole in their shell.
Any time you have nuts, get
them whole and in their shell,
because otherwise the fat
gets corrupted very easily.
And eating corrupted fat isn't
doing anything for anybody.
It's just toxic.
It's very hard to get omega-3s
in an uncorrupted form.
>> Jon, thanks mate.
I've done really well
with your method,
and there's a lot of people,
like friends and family,
that I see would do
really, really well
to have your teachings
incorporated into their life.
And when I talk to them about
it, I sort of throw it at them.
And it'd be interesting to
hear any opinion you have
on how to introduce it to
people without being like,
ah, Jon Gabriel, and
you have to do it,
and you have to read all this,
and you know what I mean?
>> OK, so your question is how
do you introduce it to people?
That's a really good question.
>> Without sort of really
pushing it on them.
And letting it start soft.
>> That's a really
good question,
because I remember
I had one lady say,
I'm buying this for my
son as a birthday present.
And he didn't talk to her
for a year afterwards.
You know, you can't just go
up to someone and say here,
I think this is for you.
You know?
People don't like that.
So you really just
have to kind of stick
with your own experience and
just have the book visible.
Have it somewhere
visible for them.
And then just when they're--
mention how much it's helped
you and how it's a great book.
And you know, tell them
to listen to the CD.
Usually just
listening to the CD is
enough to get someone started.
Yes.
>> Jon, I wanted
to ask you please,
do hormonal changes in
menopausal women cause weight
gain?
And does your method
still apply in that case?
>> Yeah.
The answer to that
question is yes it can.
Not always, but yes it can.
And I always thought it
was because of the estrogen
changes causing
insulin resistance,
but I've been working with
a doctor in the States, Dr.
Howard Liebowitz, who's
probably the world authority
on natural hormone balancing.
And he really explained
to me that it's actually
the stress of the menopause that
can cause insulin resistance.
And he works with women all
the time to naturally balance
their hormones.
I'm now doing his radio show
with him every first Wednesday
of the week--
of the month.
First Wednesday of the month,
I do a radio show with him.
It's called "Hormones
Spoken Here."
I recommend that you go on
that show and you call in.
If you were living in Santa
Monica, California where
he is, it would take
you I don't know
how many weeks to get
an appointment with him,
and how much it would cost, but
he will answer your questions
right there on the spot.
And so any type of
hormone-related issues,
especially for menopause,
I would go on his show.
It's Dr. Howard Liebowitz,
"Hormones Spoken Here."
But I want to-- we're going to--
after lunch, I'm going to answer
a lot of general questions,
but I want to stick
to right now--
I want to stick to different
ways of getting omega-3s
in your diet and different
things that can activate--
physical stresses that can
activate the fat programs.
And then we'll talk
about a lot more
about just general questions.
So any general questions you
have we'll do after lunch.
Yes.
>> I had sort of two questions.
The first one was actually
where does xylitol come from?
And the other one is I've
just been put on to a--
I have a problem with
reflux with fish oils,
and I've just been put
onto an enteric-coated one.
>> Say that again, you had
what kind of coated one?
>> An enteric-coated.
So it goes through your stomach
into your lower intestine
so you don't get reflux.
>> OK.
Did you guys hear that?
Because that's
something I didn't know.
There is a certain type of fish
oil-- what type of fish oil
is that?
>> The brand is
called Biceuticals.
B-I-C-E-U-T-I-C-A-L-S.
>> Bioceuticals.
>> No, just biceuticals.
Not bio, biceuticals.
>> OK, it's biceuticals, yeah.
>> Ultra clean, EPA/DHA plus.
OK.
I got it from my chemist,
who does naturopathy.
>> OK.
So if you have acid
reflux problems,
there is an alternative.
That's good to know.
Yeah.
>> Where does
xylitol come where?
>> Xylitol comes from
corn cobs and birch bark.
That's where they
derive it from.
Yeah.
>> Hi, Jon.
Two quick questions.
Is flax seed oil
an OK alternative
to grinding and how much
should you have of it?
And the second one is I
don't eat animal protein
and I'm dairy intolerant,
so the whey protein's
not so good either.
So what should I have?
>> Two really great questions.
Flax seed oil you have
to be really tricky with,
because once it becomes an oil,
it becomes rancid very quickly.
So you have to eat it within
four months of production.
Usually they give you a year.
If you look at the
expiration date,
they usually give you a
year for the expiry date.
You want it within four
months of production,
and it has to be
kept refrigerated.
And then you can have
a couple of tablespoons
throughout the day.
But no, it's not the
best alternative.
It's much better to
grind your flax seeds.
And what was the other question?
>> An alternative to whey.
Yeah.
If you're a vegetarian,
it's really essential
to get certain
things in your diet.
And if you don't get them
in your diet, what happens
is you just are
hungry all the time
and you end up craving things
like bread and carbohydrates.
And then the thing goes awry,
so you want to have protein.
Something called
nutritional yeast,
which is a really good
source of B vitamins,
and freshly-squeezed
wheatgrass juice.
Which, freshly squeezed
wheatgrass juice
is the best source of
vitality out there.
But it also has lots
of trace nutrients
that you get from meat.
If you have those three things,
you can be a vegetarian.
Otherwise, it's a disaster
being a vegetarian.
Now, there's another
source of protein
that I think is a really
good vegetarian one.
It's a rice bran protein
powder from SunWarrior.
It's called SunWarrior
Rice Protein Powder.
That's a really good one.
I recommend that one.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
spirulina is also--
>> Spirulina is an excellent
source of protein and trace
nutrients.
People hate it.
I happen to really like it.
Some people, if they
taste it, they're
going to spit it out
right on the spot.
And it's green, and it
goes all over the place.
It's gross.
It's a mess.
I recommend, if you can eat
spirulina, I recommended it.
Some people take
it in capsule form.
You can take like five or
10 grams in capsule form
in the morning.
And what you'll notice
is throughout the day
you're going to be much
less hungry, because it's
a great way to
nourish your body.
So yeah, thanks for that.
>> Just one question.
I am lactose intolerant
and fructose malabsorptive.
>> Wait, lactose intolerant and?
>> Fructose malabsorptive.
Which means it cuts out
most of the stuff I can eat.
>> Yeah.
Well, most of the
stuff you can eat.
Most of the sugars you can eat.
>> Well, yeah, but it
cuts out most of my fruit.
I mean, I can only eat
bananas and sometimes oranges.
>> I would recommend a
couple of things then.
First of all, and I'm
glad you mentioned
that, another reason why our
fat programs get activated
is because we lose the ability
to digest and assimilate
nutrients properly.
So I would recommend,
there's certain things
that aid in digestion.
One is probiotics.
Probiotics.
And one is digestive enzymes.
Probiotics and digestive
enzymes will help
you digest certain nutrients.
The reason why we lose the
ability to digest nutrients
is because all the
foods we eat don't
have the necessary
enzymes in them,
and when you take
things like antibiotics
and chlorinated
water, over time,
you lose the friendly
bacteria in your body
called probiotics,
the friendly bacteria
that are necessary for
digesting nutrients.
So I recommend that
you take probiotics
in the morning first
thing on an empty stomach.
Having digestive
enzymes, for example,
will help you digest
lactose, because it's
got digestive enzymes in it like
lactase that will digest it,
and all the different fruit
sugars you can't digest,
it'll help you digest those too.
So I recommend that
you take probiotics
in the morning and digestive
enzymes on an empty--
with meals maybe for
a couple of weeks.
But the probiotics I
think is an ongoing thing.
There's other ways
to get probiotics.
You can get probiotics
from any fermented foods,
like nutritional yeast,
like miso and tamari, which
are fermented soy.
I don't recommend that
you take soy in general,
unless it's fermented.
And/or apple cider
vinegar with your water.
Put some apple cider
vinegar in your water.
All these things have
friendly bacteria.
And if you ever
take antibiotics,
it's important that
you take probiotics
for at least a couple
of months afterwards.
Yeah.
Yes.
>> Hi, Jon.
I just wanted to ask
about the protein powder.
I find it convenient in
the morning having a shake.
You said in the book that
you purchased one that
is like from a sheep's milk.
Now, that's really hard to get.
>> It's really hard to get.
>> Where do you get it from?
>> No, it's really hard to get.
At the moment I've
been sourcing it.
It's very hard to get
sheep's protein in abundance.
So you just do the best you can.
We've got now, we've
got a shake that we just
made, a chocolate shake,
which you're all going
to get to taste later today.
That's just whey from cow,
and it's got chia seeds
and xylitol, and it's
just ready to mix.
So if you're in
a hurry, you just
put a couple of
tablespoons in some water.
You're done, and you've got
a really good breakfast.
And so I just want
to stop one thing
and talk just a little bit
more about how important it
is to keep your blood sugar
stable in the morning.
So what happens to us normally,
when our fat programs are on
and we're not able to
balance our blood sugar,
is we're usually not
hungry in the mornings.
Thanks.
What happens is we're usually
not hungry in the morning.
So we don't eat in the morning.
So what happens is our blood
sugar is here in the morning,
and then it goes lower, and
lower, and lower, and lower,
and lower.
And around 11 o'clock,
this is where you're at.
You're famished.
And that's when you've got
to have a donut or something
sweet, some coffee or something.
And then you eat
something sweet,
and boom, you get the
blood sugar spike.
And then all day,
you end up like this.
So it's totally essential,
even if you're not
hungry in the beginning.
Eventually this
whole-- all the rules
go out the window once your
body's functioning properly.
But in the beginning,
it's essential
that you have a really good
breakfast with these three
components like this
one which I'm going
to let you taste very soon.
Which is very good, by the way.
So what happens is when
you eat a breakfast that's
got protein, omega-3s,
and live food,
this is what your
blood sugar does.
It goes real stable like this.
So at 12 o'clock,
you're here, not here.
And that means that
at lunch, you're
going to be able to make
another good food choice,
because you're not
exhausted and starving.
So now you can choose foods
like some sort of meat, chicken,
fish, salad.
Put ground flax seeds on it.
And have good food again.
And then you go like this again
until around 3, 4 o'clock.
Which by the way,
it's essential to have
a snack in the beginning
around 3 or 4 o'clock.
You have to be proactive
with your blood sugar.
Don't wait for it
to get too low.
Don't wait till
you get too hungry.
Because once it happens,
it happens like that.
So keep your blood sugars.
So around 3 or 4
o'clock, whatever
you're eating for lunch,
save another 20% or 30% of it
and eat the same
thing two hours later.
OK?
So right around here
is 3 or 4 o'clock.
You eat something else.
Around dinner, you're here.
This is where you are at
dinner as opposed to here.
And when you're here
at dinner, and you
go past 40 different
drive-throughs, you know,
there's no way you're
making it home for dinner
without driving through.
And then you get this.
And then you feel bad at the
end because you've such a--
where'd you go, Jack?
What happened?
Take my word for it.
Then you feel bad at
the end of the day.
And then you end up
having a big ol' pig out,
and simply because
you're not keeping
your blood sugar stable.
So keep your blood sugar
stable in the very beginning
at breakfast.
Start with breakfast.
And then eat around 3 or 4
o'clock, also after lunch.
Keep your blood sugar
stable throughout the day
with foods at every meal.
Where's the omega-3s?
Where's the fatty acids?
Where's the live food?
Yes.
OK.
I'll take a couple
more questions.
Yeah.
Where are you?
Hi.
>> I work a lot with pharmacists
and krill oil is available
in most.
>> OK, good.
>> A lot of the pharmacist
naturopath specialist's skills
are recommending
liquid fish oil.
And one of the reasons is that
krill is the food that dolphins
and whales eat, so they're
worried about the depletion
in the sea about that.
So they're talking about
liquid fish oil as well.
>> OK.
Yeah.
So there's an environmental
issue about the food chain
that you're talking about.
But as far as for your
own personal body,
it's probably the best thing
you can put in your body.
So there's a little
bit of a trade-off
there, and that's
something be considered.
But it is definitely the best
oil you can put in your body.
I don't agree with
liquid fish oil,
because when it's a liquid form,
it's more likely to go rancid.
And rancid-omega
3s are just toxic.
You have to have them
in a non-toxic form.
Yes.
>> Hi, Jon.
I just had a query
about, you talk about
toxins and eliminating
them from the body.
And I was just
wondering, would you
recommend taking a
multivitamin each day?
>> Yeah.
>> How do you know which
multivitamin is the best
to take?
>> I don't think you--
I know I recommend
that in the book.
I don't think you have to
take a multivitamin every day
as long as you're getting
a lot of live food.
If you're getting live, organic
food in your diet every day,
you're getting all the
vitamins and nutrients,
especially if you're
getting freshly
squeezed wheatgrass juice.
If you're getting
that every day,
or some spirulina every
day, you don't necessarily
need multivitamins.
Yeah.
Who's next?
Yes.
>> Hi, Jon.
I was just wondering, do you
have a preference for grazing
rather than having specific
meals throughout the day?
Is there a benefit
to one or the other?
>> Yeah.
I think that grazing
is fine and is good.
Whatever's going to keep
your blood sugar stable.
What I think is
really important is
to have a really,
really good breakfast.
The risk with grazing
is that you're not
hungry in the morning, and
so you're not going to eat.
And I'm saying you have
to eat in the morning
in the beginning.
Right now, like for me, I
might not eat in the morning.
Like yesterday, I didn't
eat till 4 o'clock.
And that's just because
I was busy doing
a lot of other things that
were keeping me occupied.
And then when I ate, I ate.
And then I ate throughout.
It doesn't matter anymore.
Once your body can
regain the ability
to burn fat and regulate
your blood sugar,
all the rules go out the window.
But in the beginning, you've
got to understand that
you're different right now than
the way you're-- than, quote,
"naturally thin people" or
the way your body's supposed
to function.
And you've got to
make adjustments.
So the first thing is,
even if you're not hungry,
you've got to have
a good breakfast.
And then you do have
to eat something
around 3 or 4
o'clock, and you do
have to be proactive
with your blood sugar.
Yes.
Yeah.
>> Hi, Jon.
I've just got a quick
question about live foods.
You recommend in the
book, and here as well,
about eating as much live
foods, fruits, vegetables,
and everything.
But as you were talking
about, 10,000 years ago
obviously our fruits
and vegetables
were much more natural,
and much more--
we would gain much
more nutrients.
What about now?
Is it more towards
organic, or just generally
try and get as many as you can?
>> Number one is the best type
of live foods are organic,
locally grown, in-season.
Like, if you go to
a farmer's market,
sometimes they're the cheapest.
Not always, but sometimes
they're the cheapest.
If you go to a farmer's
market and they're just
kind of spray-free, maybe
they're not certified organic,
they're just a local person.
But they've never had any
toxins in their garden,
and they're growing, and
it's the cheapest food.
It's the food your body
needs because it's in season.
It wasn't imported from the
other side of the world.
Locally grown, in-season
organic is the best you get.
Now, a lot of people say
organic costs a lot of money.
And that's true,
but so does dealing
with toxins in your body.
The medications that you have
to take because you've got
too many toxins in your body.
The weight problems that
you have because you've
got too many toxins
in your body.
And all of the different
physical ailments
that you have all the
time, because you have
too many toxins in your body.
All those things
cost a lot of money,
and they go away when
you eat more healthy,
live organic food.
You also end up spending
less on food eventually.
The reason is, when you're
nourishing your body,
you crave less food.
Because your brain is listening
to your stomach, you eat less.
So when you address the issue
by getting more organic foods,
eventually you will
save money on food.
Not in the beginning,
but eventually.
So I recommend making the effort
to get organic, especially
locally grown.
Find out where the
farmer's markets are.
Learn how to grow wheatgrass.
I have a video, we
haven't put it out yet,
on how to grow wheatgrass.
It's the cheapest thing in
the world to grow wheatgrass,
and it's easy.
Have fresh-squeezed
wheatgrass every day.
You will be amazed
at how much food--
how much less food you need when
you have a shot of wheatgrass
in the morning.
And it's simply because
you've given your body
specific nutrients that
it is starving for,
that you can't get in
cinnamon buns, and bagels,
and all the foods we
eat in drive-throughs.
And you just can't get it.
And as long as you
can't get it, your body
is starving, and starving,
and starving for it.
You're cheating, but
I'll take your question.
What is that?
That's OK.
What is it?
What's your question?
>> Is wheatgrass gluten free?
I'm really glad you asked that.
Yes, wheatgrass is gluten free.
Wheatgrass is a sprout.
It doesn't have gluten in it.
Gluten is a very harmful
substance in wheat.
And I just want to
mention one other thing.
Hey Jack, you going to get
this thing to work for me?
Is it working up there?
It's not working on my screen.
I just want to mention one other
thing about wheat in general.
Wheat products, and
invented products
like grains in general, is that
when you eat a piece of bread,
you get a three times greater
insulin response than you
do with live food like fruits.
And what happens is
when you get that, it's
called an exaggerated
insulin response,
and when you get an
exaggerated insulin response,
over time, what happens
is your cells stop
listening to insulin.
The same way that if
you were in a concert,
and the music was really loud,
your ears would become deaf.
So when the insulin is
really loud in your system,
your cells become deaf.
They become resistant.
So simply by eating
invented foods
and causing that exaggerated
insulin response,
you get this insulin resistance.
Now, am I telling you to
cut out breads, and grains,
and all invented foods?
I would love more than anything
else in the world for you
to do that.
But I know it's not reality.
So don't cut them out.
Add.
Add, add, add, add live foods.
Add real foods.
Add omega-3s.
Add these foods.
Be aware of the fact that
all invented foods, anything
we've ever invented, except
for super foods, which
are specifically for
nutrients, but anything
we've ever invented for
taste or convenience
is causing hormonal
chaos in your body
and causing yourself
to gain weight.
Don't cut it out.
Add these.
Add the other good foods.
Become aware that you don't
need those other foods.
They have no nutrients
in them, and they
cause hormonal chaos
that cause your body
to activate the fat programs.
Over time, you will find
you crave them less.
It's very, very,
very, very rare for me
that I ever crave anything
that's been invented anymore.
And yet, there was a
time when I couldn't
go a day without having
bread, or pizza, or pasta,
or something.
They're just invented food.
Over time, you trend toward
regaining a natural rhythm
eating natural foods.
Yes.
Hi.
>> Hi.
I've got a question.
I eat pretty well except for
right about 9 o'clock at night.
Instead of being a
vampire and wanting blood,
I just want
carbohydrates or bread.
And I just--
>> That's called--
there's a term for it.
They call it nighttime eating.
And I had that.
And that's an intentional
act on your body
to cause you to gain weight
when your fat programs are on,
because eating at night is
the best way to gain weight.
And the reason is when you
eat before you go to sleep,
your digestion shuts down.
In general, when
you go to sleep,
your digestion shuts down.
When you eat before
you go to sleep,
your digestion shuts down and
your insulin levels become
elevated.
And so the whole night, you've
got elevated insulin levels
causing you to
make fat all night.
So you're making fat while
you sleep all night if you
eat before you go to sleep.
You can eat the same
amount in a day,
and if you eat it during the
day, you will lose weight.
And if you eat it at night,
you will gain weight.
It's not about calories
in and calories out.
It's about how
your body responds
to certain hormonal
changes when you eat foods.
So before you go to
sleep, when you eat,
your insulin levels
stay elevated all night.
Now, if you eat first thing
in the morning for breakfast,
and you eat throughout
the day, hopefully you
have an early dinner.
Then for the next three hours,
hopefully you're not hungry.
Drink a lot of water.
If you're not hungry
at night, that's a sign
your body wants to lose weight.
And what happens is your
insulin levels lower.
And when you go to sleep,
you burn fat all night.
And that's when you burn
fat, when you sleep.
And I tell people to
drink a lot of water
before they go to sleep.
And people say, well, I'm up
all night going to the bathroom.
And that's true.
And that's not the best
thing in the world.
But guess what
you're eliminating?
You're eliminating fat.
That's how your body
burns fat, and that's
how it eliminates it.
So it's a good thing when
you're losing weight.
So become aware.
When people say to me, I
used to be hungry at night
and I'm not anymore,
that's a signal
that your fat programs
are getting turned off,
that your body doesn't
want to be fat anymore.
But as long as it wants
to be hungry at night,
it means that your body
wants to hold on to weight.
Start by eating in the morning
lots of nutritious foods.
Have some super foods
also, like some spirulina
or wheatgrass first
thing in the morning.
Notice if you're
still hungry at night.
Did you have another question?
>> I was going to--
you've just answered--
I was going to say maybe
instead of having a
carb snack after dinner
when I'm not really
hungry, I'm just craving,
should I have one of those?
>> You can have one of those.
Like the shake.
I think Helen made some of these
shake mixes, which I'm going
to make for you after lunch.
There's a chocolate shake.
Just have one of those.
It's a million times better.
>> So your insulin gets better?
>> You won't have the same
insulin response, no, as carbs.
But do you eat breakfast
in the morning?
>> Yeah, but I train for about
half an hour before I eat
breakfast.
>> You do what?
>> Like exercise first.
>> But what type of
breakfast do you have?
>> Just a protein drink.
OK.
All right, well, try this.
Try the shake.
It's like a chocolate shake,
and you can just have that,
and it doesn't have the
same insulin response.
It's got lots of nutrients.
Yeah.
>> OK, about the flax seeds.
You said freshly
ground flax seeds.
Can you grind them in the
morning for a full day,
or do they have to be
ground directly before use?
>> You can grind your
flax seeds in the morning,
and then take them with you and
sprinkle them on everything.
>> Is that just every
day, or can you--
>> You need omega-3s every day.
So you don't have to have flax
seeds every day, or linseeds,
but you need omega-3s every day.
Really, preferably
at every meal.
Every meal, you really
want ask yourself,
where am I getting the omega-3s,
the protein, and the live food?
Those are the essential things
that you need every single day.
Yes.
>> I just want to ask about the
digestive enzymes you mentioned
before.
So do you need to
take them ongoingly?
When you read your
book, it's says--
>> No.
Do you need to take a
dose of enzymes ongoing?
No.
Take them in the beginning.
But as you eat more
live food, the live food
has digestive enzymes in it.
Also, your immune system
gets much stronger,
and your immune system
competes for those enzymes.
So as your immune system gets
stronger because you have less
toxins in you, and your body's--
and you're having
the proper fats
and you're being nourished,
your immune system
gets much stronger.
It's not competing as
much for those enzymes.
So no.
You need digestive
enzymes in the beginning
as a short-term thing,
but you need some sort
of probiotics ongoing.
Yes.
>> I just want to mention the
word salt talk about craving
for salt.
>> OK.
The reason why we crave salt is
because we need trace minerals.
The problem is table salt
doesn't have trace minerals.
It's just poison that
causes you to be hungry
and causes a lot
of inflammation.
The inflammation then
elevates these hormones
that activate the fat programs.
So table salt is poison.
But real salt is one of the best
things you put in your body.
Now, there's different
salts you can get.
One is called
Himalayan salt crystals
which have 84 trace minerals.
I just had one from
New Zealand that I
love it's a volcanic salt.
Tastes, smells terrible.
It's got sulfur in it.
Smells horrible.
There's something about it
that I really just love it.
I think I really
like stinky food.
That's what I'm
figuring out right now.
And if you can't get
that, then sea salt.
And those are perfect.
They have trace minerals.
You need those trace minerals.
But table salt is poison.
It tricks you into
tasting like something
that's nutritious but
is not nutritious.
I'll take one more question, and
then we're going to tie it up
and I'll feed you guys.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> OK.
But I want to say something.
I want to talk for three
questions worth, so.
Go ahead.
>> You seem to be absolutely
opposed to cereals
for breakfast.
You're ruining my breakfast
that I have every day.
I have a huge bowl of
muesli that I produce myself
from as much natural
food as possible.
I drink probiotics.
I put flax seed on it.
I put whey protein on it.
I put milk on it.
And really, I'm not
hungry by lunchtime.
I have this before
5:30 in the morning.
>> Yeah, no.
It's perfect.
Keep doing what
you're doing, OK?
But make the muesli an organic
whole grain type of grain.
It'll be infinitely better.
OK?
As long as you're-- if
you're going to have grains,
mix them with protein, omega-3,
and live foods to balance out
the sugar spikes so there's
something behind it afterwards.
Doing exactly what you're doing.
The only thing I
would do differently
is rather than
having milk, I would
look for an alternative milk
like almond milk, rice milk.
Not soy milk.
I'm really against soy.
Soy elevates your
estrogen levels,
which causes insulin
resistance, and it
interferes with
your body's ability
to digest and assimilate
other nutrients.
So I'm really averse to soy
unless it's fermented soy.
But rice milk, almond
milk, oat milk.
Have an alternative
to just regular milk,
because regular milk just
kind of causes inflammation,
and that's not the best
thing in the world.
And you don't necessarily
need yogurt, either.
The reason-- the one
good thing about yogurt,
it's got probiotics in it.
Yes.
>> Hi.
Just a quick comment
and a question.
The comment was
more that there's
a lot of really good organic
produce delivery people here
in Melbourne, and you're
actually only spending
at the end of the day
about an extra $2 to $5
a week as to how much you'd
normally spend on your produce.
So it is quite easy
to get in Melbourne.
The other one was
with the chia seeds
for those who worry
about the fishies.
Aren't they supposed to be 17%
higher in omega-3 than the fish
oil?
>> Yeah.
It's a really good source.
Chia seeds are a really
good source of omega-3s.
It's a different omega-3.
It's a higher level of
omega-3 than the fish
oil, which is the EPA and DHA.
This is called an ALA,
which has to be broken down
into EPA and DHA.
Not everybody can break
it down perfectly.
That's why I say you need both.
And you need as much different
variety as you can get.
And what you'll find over time
is that because you're getting
these good fats, you're
just going to-- your body's
going to be functioning so
much better that you're just
going to be making good food
choices throughout the day.
Yeah.
OK.
I'll take another
question, yeah.
>> We've heard from a number
of people who have intolerances
or allergies.
Have you found in your
feedback in your time
doing these seminars that
those change as people
get nutritionally balanced?
>> I had a lady in Perth about
six months ago come up and give
a talk, and we'll have that
talk on the internet soon.
Her name's-- what was--
where's Helen?
What was her name?
I'm lost without Helen.
Anyway, this lady
gave a talk, and she
said that for the
last 10 years she's
been allergic-- she
has celiac disease.
She's been allergic
to 99% of all foods.
All she could have was
I think eggs and milk
or something like that.
The video will be on there.
She used to get these attacks
where she couldn't breathe
and where it was
life-threatening all the time.
So much so that friends
wouldn't invite her over
for any social thing, because
she could just die on the spot.
Her doctors gave her
three months to live.
And now it's been a year.
She hasn't had a single attack.
She eats whatever she wants.
And her doctors are
just flabbergasted.
And there were two main reasons
why she was having a problem.
One, she had a serious
digestive problem.
So I put her on that probiotic
that I just mentioned,
Primal Defense.
And stress was causing a
lot of digestive problems.
The reason why stress
causes digestive problems
is because stress diverts
your blood into your muscles
away from your
digestion, so you are not
able to digest
your food properly.
And then the food
becomes toxic and rancid.
It leaks into your stomach--
it leaks into your bloodstream.
And then it becomes toxic
in your bloodstream.
Your body builds
up antibodies to it
and you become allergic to it.
That's how you get
asthma, and Crohn's
disease, celiac disease, and
all these digestive problems
and food allergies.
So by taking a probiotic,
by taking more live foods,
by living a lower
stress life, which we're
going to talk about
the next section,
your digestion greatly
repairs itself.
And then all of these food
allergies and problems go away.
So I want to talk just for a
couple minutes about something.
So we've talked about--
what's that?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> What did I just say?
Yeah, you're going to
have to watch the video,
because I never
remember what I said.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Stress diverts your blood--
stress diverts blood away from
your digestion.
And so when you eat food,
you don't have enough blood
to digest your food properly.
Your energy is not in
your digestive area.
The food becomes
rancid and toxic.
It leaks into your
bloodstream and
that toxic, non-digested food,
we then become allergic to.
It becomes a poison, and
we build up antibodies,
and we become allergic to it.
All that stuff gets
unraveled and gets undone.
This lady's story
was unbelievable.
When you get-- when you
watch her when she's talking,
and we'll have it on
the internet soon,
on gabrielmethod.com.
It's an unbelievable story.
So dealing with
some of the physical
stresses that activate
the fat programs.
Number one is dieting, right?
Now, if you are dieting now,
you can't just say, yeah,
I'm on the Gabriel Method.
I don't have to diet anymore.
OK?
It doesn't work that way.
Don't kill the messenger.
I'm giving you
principles to work with.
But if you're dieting,
what you've done
is you're artificially keeping
your set point at a lower rate,
like holding a
volleyball underwater.
And the second you let go, poof.
So if you've lost 20 kilos or 40
pounds by dieting, and you go,
yeah, I don't have
to diet anymore.
Those 20 kilos,
that 40 pounds are
going to come back like that.
And I've had a lot of
people tell me that.
Eventually, their
body stabilizes
and they start
losing weight again.
So what I recommend is
if you are dieting now,
if you're actively restricting
your intake, transition.
Spend six months transitioning.
Don't change what you're
doing, but add foods
that you're starving for.
Deal with the other
issues in your life
which we're going to
talk about next section,
the mental and emotional
issues, and transition
over a six-month period into
a more healthy lifestyle.
As your body deals
with the real issues,
whether it's digestion,
or nutritional famine,
or mental and emotional
stress, or toxins,
whatever the issue
is, or medications,
over time as you're
able to deal with that,
then your set point will
go down to the level
that you're artificially
keeping your weight at.
And once that happens, you can
make the transition easier.
So don't make too many
changes in the beginning.
Spend six months transitioning.
There's one other thing
I want to talk about as
far as from a
physical stress that
can activate the fat programs.
Something called sleep apnea.
Now, sleep apnea is
something that happens,
a vicious cycle that happens.
If your fat programs
get activated
through some sort of
stress in your life,
you start gaining
weight, gaining weight,
and gaining weight.
Eventually, you develop
something called sleep apnea.
And sleep apnea happens
when you gain weight
because the weight of
your neck and chest
overcome the pressure
of your windpipe.
So when you're sleeping,
you're choking all the time.
At my heaviest, I had
a 50-centimeter neck,
or 22 inches.
Whenever I was laying, I
was choking all the time.
And when you're choking all
the time, you don't know it,
but you're not getting
into a deep enough sleep.
And that does a
couple of things.
One, you're tired all the time.
I was exhausted night and day.
Like, when I was at a
red light, the only way I
knew that it was time to--
that there was a green light
was I'd get a beep from someone
behind me, because
I'd be asleep.
I'd be in meetings
falling asleep
when I was the one talking.
I was a walking zombie.
I was tired all the time.
And when you're
tired all the time,
you don't have any
energy to exercise.
You have no energy to
take care of your life.
You know, to make a good living
and have great relationships
with people.
You have no energy for that.
Forget about that.
And you're craving
junk food all the time,
because it's the only
way to get energy.
You know how you feel when
you've been traveling for three
days and you haven't slept?
You need junk food all the
time just to keep going.
And the worst part of it is it
elevates your cortisol levels.
And elevated cortisol
levels is what
happens when you're
starving in a famine.
Elevated cortisol levels
activate your fat programs.
If you give a mouse cortisol
over a two-year period,
he'll grow to three
times his size.
If you give a doctor who tells
you to eat less cortisol,
guess what?
He ain't going to
be eating less.
He's going to gain
weight for as long
as he's taking the cortisol.
Cortisol causes your body to
activate the fat programs,
because it tricks you into
thinking you're in a famine.
It's a trigger.
So already you've got
some sort of stress
that's activating your
fat programs, that
causes you to gain weight to the
point that you get sleep apnea.
The whole thing goes on
to-- it takes a new level.
Now your body really wants
to be fat, craving junk food,
you're exhausted all the time.
It's a vicious,
vicious, vicious cycle.
At my heaviest, I had the
worst case of sleep apnea
that the sleep study
technicians, when
they studied me, had ever seen.
And I used to-- and the way
you know-- one of the ways
you know you have sleep
apnea is if you snore a lot,
and then you stop snoring.
And I used to snore
like nobody snored.
I remember one time
I was in a plane.
I was in the back of the plane,
and I must have fallen asleep.
But all I know is
that I woke up,
and I see as far forward as
you can see, every set of eyes.
The entire plane is staring.
Little kids, you
know, babies everyone.
It's just-- and I wake up
and I see all these eyes
staring at me.
I just sort of pretend like
I don't know what's going on
and I just kind of look away.
But the whole plane
could hear me snore.
And I remember the first time
I went to visit Australia,
I was sleeping
outside at a farm.
And there was cows grazing
all through hundreds
of acres of land.
And I was sleeping outside.
I woke up in the
morning, I kid you
not, every single cow was
lined up along the fence just
staring at me like
I was giving out--
like I was some sort of deity
waiting for their next command.
So what happens is you're
snoring all the time
because you can't breathe.
And then you stop
snoring because you've
cut off your circulation.
Then you have this big snore.
So that's an indication.
But you have to get
treated for sleep apnea.
And I remember last
year I was talking
to some guy in Melbourne.
His name's Alan Scotty Davidson.
He's on my internet
too, if you check.
I was talking to this guy.
The guy calls me, and he said,
I'm trying to lose weight.
I need to lose about, I
don't remember what he said,
50 kilos, whatever it was.
And I'm tired all the time.
I eat this, I eat that.
But I could tell
from his breathing
that he had sleep
apnea, because he was
breathing the way I used to.
Like he sounded a bit like
Darth Vader on the phone.
He'd go, hello.
[LOUD BREATHING]
I want to lose weight.
The force is with you.
Luke, I'm not your father, Luke.
You know, he would
talk like this.
And I used to talk
like that on the phone.
I had this big heavy breathing.
And I said, I don't want to
talk about what you're eating
and what you're not eating.
I said, you've got sleep apnea.
As long as you have sleep
apnea, get that taken care of,
and then we can have a
chat about the rest of it.
He got the sleep
apnea taken care of.
And the way you do it is you
go to a sleep study clinic.
Jack can give you
information about how
to take care of sleep apnea,
especially in Melbourne,
because he's from Melbourne.
You get a machine
called a CPAP machine
that blows air into
your nose and mouth
while you're sleeping.
It gives your
windpipe more pressure
to overcome the
weight of your neck.
And so he did this.
And he called me
two weeks later.
He said he had lost
13 kilos in 13 days.
Which is unheard of.
And I'm not recommending
that or suggesting
that that's what
happens all the time,
but it did happen, because
that was his issue.
And he went on to lose 40 kilos
over four months pretty much
effortlessly.
And he's on the website.
But that was his issue.
The whole point is you
have to nail the issue,
whether it's from chronic
dieting, nutritional famine,
toxins, artificial ingredients,
sleep apnea, dehydration.
Drink lots of water.
Whatever it is, you have
to address the issue.
But more important than
any of these things
that we're talking about,
and in my experience,
for 80% of all people that
have chronic weight issues,
it's mental and
emotional stress.
Because mental and emotional
stress causes chemistry
that causes that
insulin resistance,
that activates the fat programs.
It's real, it's
tangible, it's chemical.
It's not just about
being an emotional eater.
It's a tangible, chemical
thing that has to be addressed.
We're going to talk
about it next session.
And now we can take
a break, and now you
get to sample our
lovely cuisine.
And we'll see you
back here soon.
Thank you.
>> Today's seminar was
fantastic, actually.
There was a lot of questions
raised that aren't addressed
in the book, so
it really helped,
you know, I suppose cemented
a little bit more in my head
in how to deal with
it moving forward,
like actually put the
principles in practice.
So I thought it was
really, really good.
I absolutely love the book.
I had so many light bulb
moments when I was reading it.
I've tried nearly
everything over the years,
so I thought it was fantastic.
>> Finally, after 30 years, I
have a normal relationship with
food again.
I can look at it and
say it's only food.
I don't need it.
I am happier in my life, in my
thinking, in my relationship,
at my work, and
it's because of Jon.
The meditation that he does.
And it makes me feel
much more happier.
And I'm spreading the
word to all my friends
and say, come with me, come with
me, because I feel sensational.